
# GMOS(Goals, Operators, Methods, and Selection rules)
advantages: 
With a careful investigation into all of the detailed steps necessary for a user to successfully interact with
an interface,the time measurement of how long it will take a user to interact with that interface is a simple
calculation. 
disadvantages:
All of the GOMS techniques provide valuable information, but they all also have certain drawbacks. 
None of the techniques address user unpredictability - such as user behaviour being affected by fatigue, 
social surroundings, or organizational factors. 

#CMN-GOMS
Eyes/ears perceive information
Information enters perceptual processor
Information enters the visual/auditory image store
Information is stored in the working memory and long term memory
Information is analyzed in the cognitive processor and a desired reaction (motor function) is chosen
Desired motor function is activated in the motor processor
Desired motor function is applied by user’s body

# Fitts's law (often cited as Fitts' law) 
a descriptive model of human movement primarily used in human–computer interaction and ergonomics. This scientific 
law predicts that the time required to rapidly move to a target area is a function of the ratio between the distance 
to the target and the width of the target.

# cognitive model in chi 2014, 2015
http://chi2014.acm.org/program/best-of-chi

http://chi2015.acm.org/program/best-of-chi/?id=pn1991#best-papers

A cognitive architecture model for how long it takes to find icons on a display enables more accurate predictions
of task performance from an easy-to-use GOMS-based tool. 

Understanding Multitasking Through Parallelized Strategy Exploration and Individualized Cognitive Modeling

# cogtool
Telephone Number Look-Up Task
This example compares two interfaces (a dialog box and a pop-up menu) on two tasks (look up one telephone number and look up two telephone numbers). The interfaces were first described by Nielsen and Phillips at CHI 1993 (N&P93) and have been modeled by using several types of KLM modeling frameworks. The original KLM was used in N&P93 and in John 1994; ACT-Simple was used by Salvucci and Lee a few years later, and it was the first demonstration of CogTool at CHI 2004.

This example demonstrates the use of menus, buttons, text boxes, highlighting text, Look-At steps, and context menus.

It's predictions for the dialog box tasks match observed data to within 10%. Its predictions for the pop-up (context)
menu interface are not quite as good, probably because these are extremely short tasks, on the order of 2-4 seconds
for today's users (4-6 seconds for N&P's users in the early 1990s when mice and context menus were less familiar), 
which leave little room for the approximation of thinking time inherent in the KLM model that underlies CogTool's 
predictions. Still, the models predict, correctly, that the dialog box interface will take 4-5 times as long as
the pop-up menu interface.


# model-based evaluation of expert cell phone menu interaction

eleven productions: find-top-item, find-next-item, attend-item, encode-item, respond-select-target...

#Tutorial

One simple addition example, two visual tasks, principle of activation of chunck, selecting production based on utility,procedural learning, procedural partial learning

That is setting three parameters: :esc, :lf, and :trace-detail. The first two are specifying that retrieval requests will always take 50ms, but other than that are beyond the scope of this unit and will be discussed fully in later units. The third parameter being set, :trace-detail, controls how much information is shown in the trace when a model runs.

#Lisp

common lisp


#Graph Design for the Eye and Mind( by Stephen M. Kosslyn)
Graph:
1.Use a graph to illustrate relative amounts
2.Specify the subject
3.Present the data needed for a specific purpose
4.Use concepts and display formats that are familiar to the audience
5.Selecting the Right Format for the Job


#Front-end Developer
http://www.zhihu.com/question/29875948

http://www.w3ctech.com/topic/107

Test of front-end
http://hikejun.com/blog/

The trend of front-end developing
http://jjperezaguinaga.com/2014/03/19/why-cant-we-find-front-end-developers/

Alloy team
http://www.alloyteam.com
